# David Pearce | How to End All Suffering

**Channel**: Foresight Institute
**Published**: 2024-03-27
**Duration**: 1h 1m 5s
**URL**: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=COYzvDwrTKY

## Description (no transcript available)

*Apply to join Foresight Existential Hope program:* https://foresight.org/existential-hope/
A group of aligned minds who cooperate to build beautiful futures from a high-stakes time in human civilization by catalyzing knowledge around potential paths to get there and how to plug in.

*David Pearce | How to End All Suffering* 

This month, we talk to David Pearce, a thought leader who is always pushing the boundaries of human potential. Pearce, a philosopher and bioethicist, is best known for his advocacy of transhumanism – the movement that seeks to enhance human capabilities through technology.

We'll explore his ideas on overcoming aging, achieving radical life extension, embracing cognitive enhancement, adn ending all suffering. Join us as we unpack the ethics and possibilities of the future, and discover Pearce's vision for a world where humanity transcends its biological limitations

*About The Foresight Institute*

The Foresight Institute is a research organization and non-profit that supports the beneficial development of high-impact technologies. Since our founding in 1986 on a vision of guiding powerful technologies, we have continued to evolve into a many-armed organization that focuses on several fields of science and technology that are too ambitious for legacy institutions to support. From molecular nanotechnology, to brain-computer interfaces, space exploration, cryptocommerce, and AI, Foresight gathers leading minds to advance research and accelerate progress toward flourishing futures.

*We are entirely funded by your donations. If you enjoy what we do, please consider donating through our donation page:* 

*Visit* https://foresight.org, *subscribe to our channel for more videos or join us here:*
*• Twitter:* @HopeExistential @foresightinst
*• Facebook:* @htinst 
*• LinkedIn:* @/foresight-institute
