I almost rage-quit Codex after one day. It doesn't infer intent as well as Claude Code.
I literally pasted in an error log and it said "what do you want to do with this".
The permissions system is super annoying, it asks for permission constantly.
After learning a few key things from @steipete and @thsottiaux, everything changed - Codex became an absolute beast.
1. The main issue that nearly got me to rage quit was the permission system, it kept stopping for so many things. Even when it would ask for permission, the "always allow this type of command" allows "pnpm install nuqs" in the future rather than "pnpm install" which wasn't useful at all.
So now I always run "codex --yolo", and I even aliased "codex" to open "codex --yolo". This was a game changer and it finally felt usable to me.
2. Start your setup from @steipete's repo here - https://github.com/steipete/agent-scripts/blob/main/AGENTS.MD. Bookmark this and copy it when you're done reading. I copied nearly all of it and reworded/excluded parts that didn't relate to my work or skills I didn't need. Make sure to understand why things in the AGENTS md file are set up like that so that you're able to extend on it later.
3. You have to use it differently than Claude Code so it'll take a couple of days to adjust. For example, it's worse at inferring intent. There's many times that I ask a question and it doesn't check my codebase, or it asks "do you want me to check the repo". This is super annoying but you learn to just add "check repo" to certain prompts.
I found that if i give good instructions, it just one shots the task more reliably than CC. A good motto here is "garbage in garbage out". It's even more powerful once you give it a way to verify its own work.
4. If you need a plan just write "make a plan" or use @thsottiaux's skill here - https://x.com/thsottiaux/status/2006624682515247604. You can even just have a conversation with it to discuss implementation, and once you're happy, just get it to execute.
There's some special dopamine when you type "execute the plan and don't stop until all tests pass" because you know for a fact that Codex will not stop until it's done. I would say one downside is that Codex is really dry to talk to so sometimes I don't understand what it's saying (skill issue).
5. Codex is really good at long running tasks, especially when you give it a way to verify its outputs. The ralph wiggum version for codex is typing "don't stop until …." and it'll listen.
For example, I was generating puzzles and one puzzle's hard difficulty was taking 60 sec per puzzle. I got Codex to optimize it and create scripts to benchmark, and told it to keep running and testing until it got to <1s. Over an hour later and it was finished and it was all working.
You come to realise that Codex is an absolute workhorse that will take its time to think through things and produce really good results.
"But it's so slow!!" - this one's a common myth because with Opus 4.5 you usually need followup prompts to fix stuff, and it misses things quite often, so they end up taking around the same time for tasks. It feels quite often that Bugbot catches a lot of bugs in Opus 4.5's implementations for large tasks.
Now go run codex --yolo and see for yourself.