# MtL Lecture Series Christmas Special: Guest Speaker Michael Levin (10 December 2025)

**Channel**: Max Planck School Matter to Life
**Published**: 2025-12-19
**Duration**: 1h 5m 19s
**URL**: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=J0h9-v2o-N8

## Description (no transcript available)

Lecture topic: "The Unreasonable Effectiveness of the Behavioral Sciences in Developmental Biology and Bioengineering"

Abstract: "In this talk, I will describe our work on formalisms for the emerging field of diverse intelligence: behavioral competencies of a wide range of active embodiments. Specifically, I will describe how we use cellular collectives, and their navigation of anatomical space during embryogenesis, regeneration, and cancer suppression, as a model system for learning to communicate with unconventional agents. I will describe our use of bioelectricity as an interface to test these ideas with applications in birth defects, regenerative medicine, and oncology. I will show specific examples, arguing that the cybernetic (goal-directed) models from behavioral and cognitive science are a much better fit, than conventional open-loop emergence and complexity, to the data we already have and the engineering endpoints we need to achieve. Toward the end, I will describe our work on bioengineered synthetic novel life forms, which raise questions about non-evolutionary origins of properties and setpoints, which bring us full circle to the famous essay whose title inspired mine: the (entirely reasonable) effectiveness of mathematics in physics (and well beyond)."

Within the MtL Lecture Series, usually faculty members from the MPS MtL introduce their research to everyone interested via Zoom. For this Christmas edition however, we welcomed Prof. Michael Levin from Tufts University as a guest speaker!

Check out Prof. Levins website here: https://drmichaellevin.org/
